[Dr. Andrews] Autism,
a mental condition
characterized by
difficulty in communicating.
Does it sound like
I'm describing a surgeon?
You saved his life.
I'm Dr. Shaun Murphy.
Never forget,
you're the smart one.
And I'm proud of you, Shaun.
My brother went to heaven…
[distorted scream]
[Shaun] In front of my eyes.
He's got a serious deficit.
We hire Shaun,
and we give hope to those
people with limitations
that those limitations
are not what they think
they are.
That they do have a shot.
[Dr. Glassman] If Shaun
doesn't live up to everything
I know he can do,
I will resign my position
as president of this hospital.
[alarm ringing]
[elevator dings]
Where to?
San Jose
Saint Bonaventure Hospital.
I'm a surgical resident.
Today's my first full day.
I meant floor.
Oh. Ground floor.
I'm taking the bus.
[theme music playing]
[Jared] This is Mitchell Brand,
55 years old, post-op day one
from a radical prostatectomy.
Morning, Mitchell.
I'm Dr. Melendez.
These are my residents,
Dr. Browne and Dr. Kalu.
Your surgery went perfectly.
Yeah? Am I ever
gonna walk again?
Yes, of course.
This is Mitchell Brand,
I reviewed his chart.
He's 55 years old,
from Chicago, divorced
with two children.
You did a radical
prostatectomy
on him yesterday.
There are many possible
complications but none
related to motor neurons.
There is no chance
you won't be able to walk.
He… He wasn't worried
about his legs.
Oh, yes.
There's a significant
chance of impotence.
Dr. Murphy, you're late.
Nah, the bus was late.
The schedule was clear.
They post it online.
But the 4 bus was late,
which meant…
-You're late.
-Five minutes. We've all been…
On your first day, no less.
It is your responsibility
to be here.
If you are not, you have failed
in your responsibility,
-which makes it your fault.
-Okay. How can it be my fault?
I did nothing wrong. The bus…
This is gonna work out great.
The board clearly
made the right choice
in hiring you.
Thank you.
Dr. Melendez, we've got
an emergent consult in the ER.
You should be fine
if you leave it alone
for a couple of days.
Four days of indigestion,
bloating, constipation,
and nausea.
-[groans]
-And a lot of pain, apparently.
Did you give her morphine?
Yeah, 10 milligrams.
It hasn't touched her pain.
You have time to get a CT?
Yeah. That's why I called you.
It's very big.
Yes, it is.
What are we looking at?
[Claire] It's definitely
abutting the aorta
and the left kidney.
Renal angiomyolipoma?
[Dr. Melendez] Do you see
an extensive blood supply?
[Claire] No.
[Jared] Maybe some kind
of neurogenic tumor.
Or maybe a lymphoma.
She has a sarcoma,
a malignant tumor.
"Malignant"?
That means
it's killing me, right?
-Yes.
-Not necessarily.
We're just speculating
right now.
No, it's definitely malignant.
If it weren't malignant…
-Please stop saying
"malignant."
-Shall we talk outside?
Give her more morphine.
As much as she wants.
Okay.
Hang in there.
[Jared] You scared her.
-You didn't need
to be so blunt.
-Why?
Her prognosis is terminal
without immediate
medical intervention.
Isn't that scary?
Well, that fear
does her no good.
Does she have
a malignant sarcoma?
Are we gonna be
doing a laparotomy?
We'd need intra-operative
staging with a biopsy,
extensive dissection
of the retroperitoneum,
and excision of the mass
with wide, clear margins.
-I want in.
-[Claire] You do know
you're drooling, right?
About cutting open
a 40-year-old woman.
Real person.
Right behind that door.
It's called bedside manner.
No such thing
as outside-the-door manner.
[Shaun] It is exciting, Claire.
We'd be saving a life.
And we'd be learning.
-See?
-Dr. Browne,
you're my number two.
With all due
respect, Doctor…
Comments that start
that way rarely
come across that way.
I was going to say
that's an excellent call.
Thank you. Jared,
prep the surgical team.
Sir, what do I do?
-Scut work.
-What's scut work?
Today I'm gonna
need my surgeons
to have no distractions.
So I'm gonna need you
to handle those distractions.
All the work they do every day
that they hate doing…
You're handling it for them.
[sighs]
Make sure
they know we still need
a consent on that one.
-Am I being punished
for something?
-No.
Okay.
So that's it?
You just accept my answer
at face value?
Why?
You're very arrogant.
Arrogant people don't think
they need to lie.
So, you must be
doing this to teach me.
I look forward to learning
from scut work.
Say, "Ah."
Ah.
-How long will this be?
-Seven minutes.
Without any complications,
it takes seven minutes
to do a discharge
examination properly.
Dr. Dunsmuir has already
cleared him to go
and we need the bed.
Okay. Protocol requires
that the surgical department
also clears him.
You have an ear infection.
[Nurse Fryday] Yes,
that's why he's here.
My hearing's been
a little muffled
and I've had some ringing.
They gave him amoxicillin,
and we're sending him home.
Which is why you're here.
To send him home.
I'd like an MRI of the head
and internal auditory meatus.
I'm not being discharged?
What do you think is wrong?
I'll tell you
when I know for sure.
I don't wanna scare you.
[indistinct PA announcement]
Shaun. What are you
doing down here?
I'm waiting for her to fart.
Flatulence. But I'm
using the word "fart"
in front of the patient
to be more casual.
But you're the president
of the hospital,
so I'll say
"flatulence" to you.
Well, I appreciate that.
Why are you doing that?
She had her deviated
septum repaired.
Before we can release her,
we have to be sure
she isn't suffering
from postoperative ileus.
Ah.
This is what Dr. Melendez
feels you'll be most useful
doing today?
Waiting for farts?
I'm not just
waiting for farts.
-Thank goodness.
-I'm doing all the scut work.
Well, welcome
to your surgical residency.
Thank you.
There. I think that was it.
I don't think so.
I'll wait a little longer.
This is important.
The procedure
is called a laparotomy.
Hmm.
Yeah, your heart
sounds good.
So, we make a long
incision down the middle
of your abdomen…
-Expose the tumor…
-Am I going to die?
Dr. Melendez
is the best surgeon
I have ever seen…
Can this all wait?
You have a very
serious condition.
It's not advisable to…
Just a couple of weeks.
My son is getting
married next weekend.
They look very happy.
After the initial incision…
They've been
planning this for months.
If they have to reschedule…
Well, this is
complicated surgery,
but if all goes well,
recovery's pretty easy.
No need
to reschedule anything.
And if it doesn't?
If it doesn't go well?
[patient sighs]
My husband died
in a car accident
a couple of years ago.
Mark is our only child.
I can't die right before
his wedding. I can't.
You're not gonna die.
You will be at the wedding.
Looking beautiful.
Okay.
You're not supposed
to make promises
like that, Dr. Browne.
I told her what
she needed to hear.
Officially, our legal
department's policy is
to tell the ugly truth.
The uglier the better.
Is that what you did?
I don't think
that's what you did.
Yeah, well,
it's a dumb policy.
She needs to have
the surgery. Scaring her
would change nothing.
Right. Because a much
better policy would be
to lie to all of our patients
whenever it makes
you feel better.
No, it doesn't make me
feel better.
It makes her feel better.
I'm pathetic.
-What?
-I am pathetic.
And here's my thinking,
so just bear with me
because it kind of
insults both of us.
You met that woman
an hour ago
and you lied to her.
A pity lie
because you obviously
care about her.
A pity lie that has absolutely
zero upside for you.
But I can't make you,
the world's softest touch,
care about me.
[chuckles]
[door opens]
Hey.
[keyboard clacking]
I need a consult.
You have a question
about this?
This patient's
perfectly healthy.
There's not even
any artifact on these images.
Yeah. Which, in turn,
raises an interesting
medical question.
Why the hell
did this patient
get an MRI?
I don't know
anything about this.
Yeah. Someone
on your team ordered it.
It's your responsibility,
which makes it your fault.
How did you…
It's my department, it's my job
to know everything.
Well, then,
since I work for you,
doesn't that make
all this actually your fault?
Sorry. I stopped listening
after "I work for you."
-[Shaun] Does that hurt?
-Yes.
-Does that hurt?
-[Jerry] How much are we
paying for this?
She has a tummy ache.
That's what they do,
they ache.
She's just trying
to get out of school. Again.
Where do you think
she learned that from?
You don't think she hears you
calling in sick to work
right before you go golfing?
I like school.
Me, too. What did you eat
for dinner last night?
-Cereal.
-[Jerry] I thought
you made meatloaf.
I did. And it got cold
while we were waiting for you.
I want D-dimer,
lactate, and amylase…
What tests are you ordering?
D-dimer, lactate, and amylase.
-For a tummy ache, hmm?
-Yes.
I'm concerned it may be…
Shall we talk outside?
[Cecile] Told you
something was wrong.
You're happy she might be sick?
I'm happy you're wrong.
Yeah, let's talk outside.
Have they been bickering
like that the whole time?
I didn't notice.
They aren't sick.
Yeah, they're
what we call a vector.
A carrier. A cause of disease.
-You mean the parents?
-Yeah.
That little girl
has a tummy ache
because Mommy and Daddy
won't stop fighting.
This isn't a medical issue.
Send them home.
It could be intestinal
malrotation, which could
quickly become fatal.
And every patient
in this hospital
could have malaria,
but that doesn't mean
we're gonna go around
testing for every condition
we think they could have.
For example, that MRI
you ordered on the guy
with the ear infection?
-Nice call, genius.
-Thank you.`
I was being sarcastic.
It's normal. He's healthy.
Send him home, too.
-Why are you smiling?
-Because you're right.
So, you thought he was
making a mistake
and didn't say anything?
You just stood by
watching, taking notes,
while he wasted
everybody's time?
Is that your job?
In my experience,
doctors don't listen
to nurses.
And they only talk
to us to lecture us
when they figure
we screwed something up.
From now on,
you don't run any tests
you don't have to run.
How do I know
if a test is needed
until after I run it?
She'll tell you.
Today, she's your boss.
[indistinct chatter]
[clears throat]
I could never
eat before surgery.
Puke? I could do that.
I get cranky if I don't eat.
[inhales sharply]
I hear Shaun made the call.
He's an excellent
diagnostician.
You should get him
a job in radiology.
He doesn't wanna be
a radiologist,
he wants to be a surgeon.
That's what we hired him to be.
That's what I worked
damn hard
to hire him to be.
Not a glorified orderly.
Every resident
does scut work.
So you're treating him
like anybody else?
-Are you?
-Yes. Yes, I am.
He more than earned
the right to be here.
He has had to get past
people like you
and their prejudices
every step of the way.
-"Prejudices"?
-Yeah, prejudices.
Do you have any idea
how many patients he scared
the crap out of today?
How many wasted tests
he ordered?
-So teach him.
-I'm doing that.
I'm teaching you both
that he doesn't belong.
Okay.
You're gonna make me
pull rank, I will pull rank.
This is my hospital.
But it's my team.
You can't tell me
how to run my team.
Hey. How are you doing?
What's the point
of sarcasm?
Um… Uh, I…
Well, I guess
sometimes it's a way of
critiquing people in a way
that's funny, so they
don't feel quite so bad.
Isn't it just lying?
Well, it's not lying,
because people know
you're lying.
I'm not good at that.
[Steve] You may remember me
from last year.
We sell chocolate bars
every year
to pay for our class trip
to Mount Rushmore.
Okay.
But this year we're not going
to Mount Rushmore.
Because Kenny can't go.
He's got cancer.
So, Samantha had the idea
that if he can't go,
none of us would go,
and we all thought
that was a great idea.
So we're gonna have a party
at the hospital for him.
There are two Kennys
in your class.
Is it Kenny L or Kenny M?
No one's sick.
You mean you lied?
-You aren't supposed to lie.
-Yeah.
And you and me aren't
supposed to starve.
We need money for food.
-Was any of that true?
-Yeah.
We're not going
to Mount Rushmore.
I can't discharge people
if I think
they might still be sick.
Um, of course not.
Why would you?
Dr. Melendez made
Nurse Fryday
my boss today.
Should I speak
to Dr. Glassman?
No.
What did you think
this job was?
-To save people's lives.
-No.
I mean, yeah, sometimes
we do save lives.
But the job…
It's doing whatever
Melendez asks us to do.
[woman on PA]
Paging Dr. Browne.
Paging Dr. Browne to the OR.
[monitor beeping]
I'm Dr. Claire Browne.
I'm First Assist today,
and I'll be leading
the time out. Patient's name?
[nurse] Stephanie Willis.
Scheduled surgery?
[doctor] Excision
of an indeterminate
retroperitoneal tumor.
[Claire] We don't anticipate
any complications
with the surgery.
[Dr. Melendez]
Thank you, Dr. Browne.
-Ten-blade.
-[nurse] Ten-blade.
Let's remove a tumor.
No.
It might be infected.
-It's not.
-There is some discoloration.
He's 82 years old.
Everything is discolored.
[indistinct PA announcement]
[Dr. Melendez] Once we
get through the muscle layer,
proceed carefully.
[Jared] Blood pressure,
120 over 70.
Heart rate, 60.
She's holding steady.
[Claire] I've opened
the fascia.
[Nurse Fryday]
You kept your puke?
Yeah, I thought
you'd wanna see it.
It looks like puke.
No. No, no.
It's not the regular color.
-Your puke has
a regular color?
-Yeah.
It is a bit
of an unusual color.
We could order some…
-I'm sending you home.
-You're sure?
It's safe for me to go home?
[young Shaun] I don't know
what to say.
You'll learn. By doing.
Hi.
My brother said there's
a kid named Kenny and he's
sick and there might…
You should give us money.
[patient] So, am I okay?
Am I okay?
According to all hospital
rules and direct instructions
given to me, yes.
But…
Whoa.
[Dr. Melendez] We need
better exposure of this tumor.
Now, let's get
the deep Balfour in here.
[nurse] Deep
Balfour retractor.
[Dr. Melendez]
Let's get this thing open.
I've got to see
where it's safe to cut.
I can't see anywhere
where the tumor hasn't
encased her arteries.
Claire, tell me
you got something.
[Claire] I've got nothing.
This tumor is way bigger
than it looked on the scans.
I… I can't even see her aorta.
[Dr. Melendez]
That's a problem.
[Jared sighs]
[indistinct chatter]
[Nurse Fryday] Is that the girl
with the bickering parents?
Didn't we send her home?
Four hours ago?
Dr. Murphy? Dr. Melendez
needs you in surgery.
[Dr. Melendez]
That won't be necessary.
The tumor has
entirely encased
the large abdominal arteries.
That's very bad.
If it's in the artery walls,
it's going to be impossible
to cut out without killing her.
You should get
a biopsy to determine
where the margins are.
-Thank you.
-You're welcome.
I was being sarcastic. Again.
Oh, I see, because you already
know everything I said,
and you already sent
a biopsy to the lab?
Yes. 'Cause I'm a doctor too.
Yes. But you need me?
Yeah. I need you
to run down to the lab
and hurry them along.
[door opens]
I'm Dr. Shaun Murphy.
I'm a surgical resident.
Dr. Melendez
sent you a biopsy.
When will the results
be ready?
When I get to it.
It's very important.
They're all very important.
Let me see
the other test orders.
I'll tell you which ones
are most important
and you can do them
in that order.
I'll be honest and fair.
That is not the way
that it works.
Now go wait your turn.
[Steve] Do it again.
-Get the hell away
from me, you moron.
-Let's get out of here.
Wait, wait, wait.
If you wanna
get anything in life,
Shaun, there's one thing
you gotta do.
Never be afraid.
You're the moron!
If you don't do Dr. Melendez's
test right now,
I will throw a rock
through your window.
Well, I wouldn't want that.
Go have a seat.
Your results will
be ready in 15 minutes.
[knock at door]
You got a minute?
I have a patient
lying in the OR
waiting for lab results,
and I'm sitting here,
trying to figure out what
the hell I'm gonna do next
and I don't like
any of my options. So…
Yeah, unfortunately,
it seems I do.
Okay. We can talk
another time.
Glassman talked to you.
I don't have a problem
with an autistic doctor.
No, you just have a problem
with one working for you.
Really? That's how you see me?
Let's not make this personal.
You're accusing me
of prejudice.
I have a problem with a doctor
who has a problem
with communication.
Okay. Let's
make this personal.
[sighs] Who do you respect
at this hospital?
You and Glassman.
And who do you not respect?
It doesn't bother you
that it looks like you're
on the wrong team?
If the tumor hasn't invaded
into the arterial walls,
we could create
a plane of dissection.
Well, if it's a non-invasive
liposarcoma,
we can work it off
from the outside.
Blunt section, tissue forceps.
Peel it off, piece by piece.
It's a leiomyosarcoma.
[sighs]
Well, that sucks.
-[Shaun] Yes, it's sad.
-The surgery's impossible.
Well, might as well
wake her up.
Let her know she has
three months to live.
Offer palliative care.
The surgery isn't impossible.
Just very, very,
very difficult.
Yes. In the sense that
we'll be operating blind.
Yes, because the left kidney
is in the way.
The healthy left kidney.
Both kidneys
are healthy, Jared.
She only needs one.
Without the left one,
it's theoretically possible
to access the tumor
and remove it.
You're suggesting we cut out
a perfectly healthy organ
-just to get a better view?
-Yes.
-But she might die anyway?
-Yes, quite probably.
I have to go.
I have a boil to lance.
[door opens]
I mean, that's a brilliant,
very, very, very terrible idea.
Close her up
and wake her up.
Who wants to join me
when I tell her she has
six weeks left to live?
There is one possibility.
If we remove the left kidney,
we might be able to get
a good enough view
to successfully remove
the mass.
Take out a healthy kidney
to get a better view?
That's insane.
A good view is half
the battle in any operation.
Most likely outcome
is we'd be depriving
her of what little time
she has left.
But if we succeed…
You wanna do this
'cause it's exciting.
You wanna be a hero.
But if you fail,
this woman dies.
She misses
her son's wedding.
Well, that's
the issue, isn't it?
You promised
this woman she'll be okay.
She had to do the surgery.
I might as well
tell her good things.
[Dr. Melendez] The reason
we don't make patients
promises isn't just for legal.
Jared's right,
your judgment
is compromised.
-I still think…
-But you're not objective.
Who the hell is?
We should at least
wake her up,
explain what we found,
what we're hoping to do,
and get a new consent.
What we're hoping to do
is exactly what you told her
we were going to do.
Remove that tumor.
The only thing we'd be
explaining is why you
undersold the risks.
We're doing the surgery.
And Jared, you're
my new number two.
-[Dr. Mendelez] Mayos.
-[nurse] Mayos.
Going to open the fascia
and expose the kidney.
-You clamp the renal hilum.
-[Jared] Clamp.
[nurse] Clamp.
[Claire] We just cut off
the blood supply
to a perfectly healthy kidney.
[Dr. Melendez] If we needed
color commentary,
I would have hired
Jeff Van Gundy.
Shaun, I believe
you've met Trevor.
Yes, I sent him home.
Yes, well, he didn't go home.
He actually came
to the president
of the hospital instead.
He said you sent him home
even though
you thought he was sick.
I specifically never said that.
I made sure not to say that.
No. No. What the hell
does that mean?
What does that mean, Shaun?
-Am I healthy?
-Probably.
You're a doctor,
you're supposed to know.
No, we're not.
Nobody knows
anything for sure.
Anybody could drop dead
of a heart attack at any time.
Who is this guy? Am I…
Am I gonna have
a heart attack?
Shaun has some
difficulty with certain
social interactions…
-But if he says…
-I don't give a crap
what he says.
What do you say?
Am I healthy?
I've reviewed your chart
and I can say
with complete confidence
that you are in peak
physical condition.
Thank God.
[sighs]
Shaun, people
need reassurance.
I told him
he was safe to go home.
I was very clear.
With your words.
Your actions said something
completely different.
No, they didn't.
My actions were
completely silent.
When you reassure someone,
they have to receive it.
You have to gauge whether
they actually are reassured.
You understand?
When did you
review Trevor's chart?
I didn't.
It's not really a lie.
If you say that
he is safe to go home,
then I know for a fact
that he's safe to go home.
I sent a girl home today.
How often do people
develop stomach issues
because of their brain?
Based on my
personal experience,
every single day.
I want D-dimer, lactate,
and amylase
for a 10-year-old girl,
Martine LaDuff.
She might have a tummy ache
caused by stress.
Or she might not.
-Hi, Shaun.
-Hi, Carly.
That's a lot of tests
for an upset stomach.
-You could get in trouble.
-That's definitely true.
[Dr. Melendez]
Remove the kidney.
Okay.
[exhales]
Let's get in there
with some suction, Claire,
so we can get a better view
of what we're dealing with.
There it is.
[Claire] It's a mess.
[Dr. Melendez] Yes, it is.
But now it's a mess
we can see.
Everything is
within normal range.
Slightly elevated
lactate and amylase.
And she's very small.
Normal should be lower.
What do you think she has?
Thank you.
[breathing heavily]
[panting]
What the hell? It's after 1:00.
I ran tests. The results
were ambiguous.
I think Martine
has intestinal malrotation
and that a volvulus
has occurred.
"Ambiguous" tests
told you this?
It's a genetic condition.
The symptoms
are very similar to stress.
Call us in the morning.
Okay. She may not be alive
in the morning.
Does your boss
know you're here?
No, I think he'd be upset
with me for being here.
[sighs]
I am not waking
my daughter up
in the middle
of a school night
because of some freak.
And you don't need
to call me in the morning,
because I'll be calling
your boss in the morning.
Were you being sarcastic?
-How hard is it
to get rid of someone?
-I told him…
You're right, I'm weird.
Part of my weirdness
is that I perseverate.
That means I keep
thinking about things.
So I will keep knocking
on your door until
I know Martine is okay.
Martine.
Martine?
Martine, you need to wake up.
[gasps]
-Oh, honey…
-Martine?
She vomited.
-I can't wake her.
-I'll call 911.
No. There is no time.
-Do you have a car?
-[Jerry] Yeah.
[panting]
Shaun! What's wrong?
What's wrong?
Hey. Hey! You called me.
Hey, look at me.
Look at me!
What's…
You don't have to say
the whole thing, okay?
Just one thing, okay?
-One thing.
-My brother… [panting]
[whimpering]
Hold on, Shaun.
Hold on now. Hold on.
Her pulse is too weak
to perfuse her organs.
What? What does that…
-Jerry…
-Please hurry.
Patient is
a 10-year-old female.
She has bradycardia
with hypovolemic shock.
She needs oxygen,
IV adrenaline
and a liter of saline
wide open, please.
[man] Coming through!
Her pulse is better.
She needs an ultrasound.
[Dr. Melendez] That is it.
[Claire] Whoa.
-[Jared] I think
you got it all.
-[Dr. Melendez] You "think"?
No, you definitely did,
I just can't quite believe it.
[Dr. Melendez] It was
your idea. You should
have more confidence.
[Claire] Nice work, Doctor.
[ultrasound machine beeping]
There.
The small bowel is twisted
around the superior
mesenteric artery.
Martine needs
surgery immediately.
We need to confirm
with Dr. Melendez.
No, Dr. Melendez is in surgery.
Part of Martine's
bowel is dying
and killing her with it.
No. You cannot make
these calls on your own.
Dr. Melendez was very clear.
He was very clear.
It's past midnight,
which means it's tomorrow.
Which means
you're no longer my boss.
Is this the OR scheduler?
Yes, this is Dr. Murphy.
Prepare an OR for surgery.
Ten-blade.
[nurse] Ten-blade.
[Dr. Melendez]
I'll take it from here.
Nice diagnosis.
I'll handle the repair work.
-[Shaun] Is Stephanie okay?
-Yes.
Jared had an excellent idea
and she's gonna be fine.
-Light.
-[nurse] Light.
[Shaun] Would you
like me to assist?
[Dr. Melendez] Pretty basic.
I think I can take this one
on my own.
Go home. Get some sleep.
[Dr. Andrews] Let him stay.
[Dr. Melendez] Dr. Andrews,
I believe our opinions
on the wisdom
of hiring Dr. Murphy…
That battle is lost.
Shaun is here
and we have to accept it
and we will treat him
like any other resident.
-[Dr. Melendez]
Sir, it's my team.
-And it's my department.
Dr. Murphy.
[Dr. Melendez] Back on suction.
Congratulations.
[nurse] Suction ready.
[Jared whoops]
I am gonna get a drink.
I am way too
wound up to sleep.
You care to join me?
-For either?
-Don't think so.
Seriously? We were just
part of something amazing.
We reached into that woman
and we healed her.
And you're what, cranky?
[scoffs]
Maybe you could
learn something from me.
Like what? To steal credit?
Make yourself a hero
with Shaun's idea?
No, but I fought for it.
I went out on a limb for it.
I deserve credit for that.
Why didn't you rat me out
as soon as I brought it up?
[sighs] It seemed
beside the point.
No, you didn't rat me out
'cause you thought
the idea was crazy.
You would let me
take the fall.
[scoffs] Is that fair?
My idea if it fails,
but Shaun's if it succeeds?
[scoffs]
But I'll tell you what,
I'll accept that you're right.
I'll apologize
to the whole team.
If you prove to me that
you're not a hypocrite.
How am I supposed to prove
something like that?
Our patient's about to come
out of anesthesia.
Tell her the truth.
When she wakes up
and hears what we did,
how we miraculously
saved her life,
be honest with her,
about credit.
Tell her you
didn't want to do it.
Tell her that you wanted
to send her home to die.
I hear you got Shaun off scut
and back into surgery.
I heard you tried.
You're welcome.
Just a friendly warning.
I know you have no interest
in helping Shaun.
You figure you give him
a little authority,
he'll screw something up
and then you will be
done with him,
and then you'll be
done with me.
You're right about me.
I am getting old
and maybe a little emotional.
Maybe I over-committed.
But you're wrong
about Shaun.
He's gonna handle anything
you throw at him.
Either way, if he succeeds,
I'm the guy
who just backed him.
And if he fails,
I'm the president.
[door opens and closes]
[sighs]
[Stephanie groans]
Everything went great.
Thank you.
Thank you. Thank you.
-There were complications.
-But I'm okay?
-Yeah. But the surgery…
-I don't care.
You saved me. Thank you.
My son's going
to be here soon.
I told him you said
it would be okay,
but he flew in any way.
You saved me.
You're gonna be a beautiful
mother of the groom.
Go on in, take a bow.
You've earned it.
Why does it matter
who gets credit?
It matters because
the people who get credit…
They don't have
to do scut work.
Dr. Murphy,
thank you so much.
Thank you.
♪ Far so fast
It feels too late ♪
♪ I'd take care of you ♪
♪ If you'd ask me to ♪
♪ In a year or two ♪